tests/e2e/README.md, before:

# End-to-end Tests

## Structure

### `e2e` Package

The `e2e` package defines an integration testing suite used for full
end-to-end testing functionality. This package is decoupled from
depending on the Osmosis codebase. It initializes the chains for testing
via Docker files. As a result, the test suite may provide the desired
Osmosis version to Docker containers during the initialization. This
design allows for the opportunity of testing chain upgrades in the
future by providing an older Osmosis version to the container,
performing the chain upgrade, and running the latest test suite.

The file e2e\_suite\_test.go defines the testing suite and contains the
core bootstrapping logic that creates a testing environment via Docker
containers. A testing network is created dynamically with 2 test
validators.

The file e2e\_test.go contains the actual end-to-end integration tests
that utilize the testing suite.

Currently, there is a single test in `e2e_test.go` to query the balances
of a validator.

## `chain` Package

The `chain` package introduces the logic necessary for initializing a
chain by creating a genesis file and all required configuration files
such as the `app.toml`. This package directly depends on the Osmosis
codebase.

## `upgrade` Package

The `upgrade` package starts chain initialization. In addition, there is
a Dockerfile `init-e2e.Dockerfile`. When executed, its container
produces all files necessary for starting up a new chain. These
resulting files can be mounted on a volume and propagated to our
production osmosis container to start the `osmosisd` service.

The decoupling between chain initialization and start-up allows to
minimize the differences between our test suite and the production
environment.

## Running Locally

### To build the binary that initializes the chain

    make build-e2e-chain-init

- The produced binary is an entrypoint to the
    `osmosis-e2e-chain-init:debug` image.

### To build the image for initializing the chain (`osmosis-e2e-chain-init:debug`)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD046 -->
```sh
    make docker-build-e2e-chain-init
```

### To run the chain initialization container locally

```sh
    mkdir < path >
    docker run -v < path >:/tmp/osmo-test osmosis-e2e-chain-init:debug --data-dir=/tmp/osmo-test
    sudo rm -r < path > # must be root to clean up
```

- runs a container with a volume mounted at \< path \> where all chain
    initialization files are placed.
- \< path \> must be absolute.
- `--data-dir` flag is needed for outputting the files into a
    directory inside the container

Example:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD046 -->
```sh
  docker run\
    -v /home/roman/cosmos/osmosis/tmp:/tmp/osmo-test \
    osmosis-e2e-chain-init:debug \
    --data-dir=/tmp/

  osmo-test
```

### To build the debug Osmosis image

    make docker-build-e2e-debug

Commit message:

doc about validator container names

tests/e2e/README.md, after:

# End-to-end Tests

## Structure

### `e2e` Package

The `e2e` package defines an integration testing suite used for full
end-to-end testing functionality. This package is decoupled from
depending on the Osmosis codebase. It initializes the chains for testing
via Docker files. As a result, the test suite may provide the desired
Osmosis version to Docker containers during the initialization. This
design allows for the opportunity of testing chain upgrades in the
future by providing an older Osmosis version to the container,
performing the chain upgrade, and running the latest test suite.

The file e2e\_suite\_test.go defines the testing suite and contains the
core bootstrapping logic that creates a testing environment via Docker
containers. A testing network is created dynamically with 2 test
validators.

The file e2e\_test.go contains the actual end-to-end integration tests
that utilize the testing suite.

Currently, there is a single test in `e2e_test.go` to query the balances
of a validator.

## `chain` Package

The `chain` package introduces the logic necessary for initializing a
chain by creating a genesis file and all required configuration files
such as the `app.toml`. This package directly depends on the Osmosis
codebase.

## `upgrade` Package

The `upgrade` package starts chain initialization. In addition, there is
a Dockerfile `init-e2e.Dockerfile`. When executed, its container
produces all files necessary for starting up a new chain. These
resulting files can be mounted on a volume and propagated to our
production osmosis container to start the `osmosisd` service.

The decoupling between chain initialization and start-up allows to
minimize the differences between our test suite and the production
environment.

## `containers` Package

Introduces an abstraction necessary for creating and managing
Docker containers. Currently, validator containers are created
with a name of the corresponding validator struct that is initialized
in the `chain` package. 

## Running Locally

### To build the binary that initializes the chain

    make build-e2e-chain-init

- The produced binary is an entrypoint to the
    `osmosis-e2e-chain-init:debug` image.

### To build the image for initializing the chain (`osmosis-e2e-chain-init:debug`)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD046 -->
```sh
    make docker-build-e2e-chain-init
```

### To run the chain initialization container locally

```sh
    mkdir < path >
    docker run -v < path >:/tmp/osmo-test osmosis-e2e-chain-init:debug --data-dir=/tmp/osmo-test
    sudo rm -r < path > # must be root to clean up
```

- runs a container with a volume mounted at \< path \> where all chain
    initialization files are placed.
- \< path \> must be absolute.
- `--data-dir` flag is needed for outputting the files into a
    directory inside the container

Example:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD046 -->
```sh
  docker run\
    -v /home/roman/cosmos/osmosis/tmp:/tmp/osmo-test \
    osmosis-e2e-chain-init:debug \
    --data-dir=/tmp/

  osmo-test
```

### To build the debug Osmosis image

    make docker-build-e2e-debug
