x/tokenfactory/README.md, before:

# Token Factory

The tokenfactory module allows any account to create a new token with
the name `factory/{creator address}/{subdenom}`. Because tokens are
namespaced by creator address, this allows token minting to be
permissionless, due to not needing to resolve name collisions. A single
account can create multiple denoms, by providing a unique subdenom for each
created denom. Once a denom is created, the original creator is given
"admin" privileges over the asset. This allows them to:

- Mint their denom to any account
- Burn their denom from any account
- Create a transfer of their denom between any two accounts
- Change the admin. In the future, more admin capabilities may be added. Admins
  can choose to share admin privileges with other accounts using the authz
  module. The `ChangeAdmin` functionality, allows changing the master admin
  account, or even setting it to `""`, meaning no account has admin privileges
  of the asset.

## Messages

### CreateDenom

Creates a denom of `factory/{creator address}/{subdenom}` given the denom creator
address and the subdenom. Subdenoms can contain `[a-zA-Z0-9./]`.

```go
message MsgCreateDenom {
  string sender = 1 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"sender\"" ];
  string subdenom = 2 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"subdenom\"" ];
}
```

**State Modifications:**

- Fund community pool with the denom creation fee from the creator address, set
  in `Params`.
- Set `DenomMetaData` via bank keeper.
- Set `AuthorityMetadata` for the given denom to store the admin for the created
  denom `factory/{creator address}/{subdenom}`. Admin is automatically set as the
  Msg sender.
- Add denom to the `CreatorPrefixStore`, where a state of denoms created per
  creator is kept.

### Mint

Minting of a specific denom is only allowed for the creator of the denom
registered during `CreateDenom`.

```go
message MsgMint {
  string sender = 1 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"sender\"" ];
  cosmos.base.v1beta1.Coin amount = 2 [
    (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"amount\"",
    (gogoproto.nullable) = false
  ];
}
```

**State Modifications:**

- Safety check the following
  - Check that the denom minting is created via `tokenfactory` module
  - Check that the sender of the message is the admin of the denom
- Mint designated amount of tokens for the denom via `bank` module

### Burn

Burning of a specific denom is only allowed for the creator of the denom
registered during `CreateDenom`.

```go
message MsgBurn {
  string sender = 1 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"sender\"" ];
  cosmos.base.v1beta1.Coin amount = 2 [
    (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"amount\"",
    (gogoproto.nullable) = false
  ];
}
```

**State Modifications:**

- Saftey check the following
  - Check that the denom minting is created via `tokenfactory` module
  - Check that the sender of the message is the admin of the denom
- Burn designated amount of tokens for the denom via `bank` module

### ChangeAdmin

Burning of a specific denom is only allowed for the creator of the denom
registered during `CreateDenom`.

```go
message MsgChangeAdmin {
  string sender = 1 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"sender\"" ];
  string denom = 2 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"denom\"" ];
  string newAdmin = 3 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"new_admin\"" ];
}
```

**State Modifications:**

- Check that sender of the message is the admin of denom
- Modify `AuthorityMetadata` state entry to change the admin of the denom

## Expectations from the chain

The chain's bech32 prefix for addresses can be at most 16 characters long.

This comes from denoms having a 128 byte maximum length, enforced from the SDK,
and us setting longest_subdenom to be 44 bytes.

A token factory token's denom is: `factory/{creator address}/{subdenom}`

Splitting up into sub-components, this has:

- `len(factory) = 7`
- `2 * len("/") = 2`
- `len(longest_subdenom)`
- `len(creator_address) = len(bech32(longest_addr_length, chain_addr_prefix))`.

Longest addr length at the moment is `32 bytes`. Due to SDK error correction
settings, this means `len(bech32(32, chain_addr_prefix)) = len(chain_addr_prefix) + 1 + 58`.
Adding this all, we have a total length constraint of `128 = 7 + 2 + len(longest_subdenom) + len(longest_chain_addr_prefix) + 1 + 58`.
Therefore `len(longest_subdenom) + len(longest_chain_addr_prefix) = 128 - (7 + 2 + 1 + 58) = 60`.

The choice between how we standardized the split these 60 bytes between maxes
from longest_subdenom and longest_chain_addr_prefix is somewhat arbitrary.
Considerations going into this:

- Per [BIP-0173](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0173.mediawiki#bech32)
  the technically longest HRP for a 32 byte address ('data field') is 31 bytes.
  (Comes from encode(data) = 59 bytes, and max length = 90 bytes)
- subdenom should be at least 32 bytes so hashes can go into it
- longer subdenoms are very helpful for creating human readable denoms
- chain addresses should prefer being smaller. The longest HRP in cosmos to date is 11 bytes. (`persistence`)

For explicitness, its currently set to `len(longest_subdenom) = 44` and `len(longest_chain_addr_prefix) = 16`.

Please note, if the SDK increases the maximum length of a denom from 128 bytes,
these caps should increase.

So please don't make code rely on these max lengths for parsing.

Commit message:

update documentation for admin role and burning (#2269)
* update documentation for admin role and burning

Update documentation on role of admin: Since the admin can change, and therefore is not always the creator of the denom, the Burning, Minting, ChangeAdmin documentation should be updated to account for this possibility. 

Incorrect documentation for Burning: Section specified instructions for Minting, not Burning.

Co-authored-by: Dev Ojha <ValarDragon@users.noreply.github.com>

x/tokenfactory/README.md, after:

# Token Factory

The tokenfactory module allows any account to create a new token with
the name `factory/{creator address}/{subdenom}`. Because tokens are
namespaced by creator address, this allows token minting to be
permissionless, due to not needing to resolve name collisions. A single
account can create multiple denoms, by providing a unique subdenom for each
created denom. Once a denom is created, the original creator is given
"admin" privileges over the asset. This allows them to:

- Mint their denom to any account
- Burn their denom from any account
- Create a transfer of their denom between any two accounts
- Change the admin. In the future, more admin capabilities may be added. Admins
  can choose to share admin privileges with other accounts using the authz
  module. The `ChangeAdmin` functionality, allows changing the master admin
  account, or even setting it to `""`, meaning no account has admin privileges
  of the asset.

## Messages

### CreateDenom

Creates a denom of `factory/{creator address}/{subdenom}` given the denom creator
address and the subdenom. Subdenoms can contain `[a-zA-Z0-9./]`.

```go
message MsgCreateDenom {
  string sender = 1 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"sender\"" ];
  string subdenom = 2 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"subdenom\"" ];
}
```

**State Modifications:**

- Fund community pool with the denom creation fee from the creator address, set
  in `Params`.
- Set `DenomMetaData` via bank keeper.
- Set `AuthorityMetadata` for the given denom to store the admin for the created
  denom `factory/{creator address}/{subdenom}`. Admin is automatically set as the
  Msg sender.
- Add denom to the `CreatorPrefixStore`, where a state of denoms created per
  creator is kept.

### Mint

Minting of a specific denom is only allowed for the current admin.
Note, the current admin is defaulted to the creator of the denom.

```go
message MsgMint {
  string sender = 1 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"sender\"" ];
  cosmos.base.v1beta1.Coin amount = 2 [
    (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"amount\"",
    (gogoproto.nullable) = false
  ];
}
```

**State Modifications:**

- Safety check the following
  - Check that the denom minting is created via `tokenfactory` module
  - Check that the sender of the message is the admin of the denom
- Mint designated amount of tokens for the denom via `bank` module

### Burn

Burning of a specific denom is only allowed for the current admin.
Note, the current admin is defaulted to the creator of the denom.

```go
message MsgBurn {
  string sender = 1 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"sender\"" ];
  cosmos.base.v1beta1.Coin amount = 2 [
    (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"amount\"",
    (gogoproto.nullable) = false
  ];
}
```

**State Modifications:**

- Saftey check the following
  - Check that the denom minting is created via `tokenfactory` module
  - Check that the sender of the message is the admin of the denom
- Burn designated amount of tokens for the denom via `bank` module

### ChangeAdmin

Change the admin of a denom. Note, this is only allowed to be called by the current admin of the denom.

```go
message MsgChangeAdmin {
  string sender = 1 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"sender\"" ];
  string denom = 2 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"denom\"" ];
  string newAdmin = 3 [ (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"new_admin\"" ];
}
```

**State Modifications:**

- Check that sender of the message is the admin of denom
- Modify `AuthorityMetadata` state entry to change the admin of the denom

## Expectations from the chain

The chain's bech32 prefix for addresses can be at most 16 characters long.

This comes from denoms having a 128 byte maximum length, enforced from the SDK,
and us setting longest_subdenom to be 44 bytes.

A token factory token's denom is: `factory/{creator address}/{subdenom}`

Splitting up into sub-components, this has:

- `len(factory) = 7`
- `2 * len("/") = 2`
- `len(longest_subdenom)`
- `len(creator_address) = len(bech32(longest_addr_length, chain_addr_prefix))`.

Longest addr length at the moment is `32 bytes`. Due to SDK error correction
settings, this means `len(bech32(32, chain_addr_prefix)) = len(chain_addr_prefix) + 1 + 58`.
Adding this all, we have a total length constraint of `128 = 7 + 2 + len(longest_subdenom) + len(longest_chain_addr_prefix) + 1 + 58`.
Therefore `len(longest_subdenom) + len(longest_chain_addr_prefix) = 128 - (7 + 2 + 1 + 58) = 60`.

The choice between how we standardized the split these 60 bytes between maxes
from longest_subdenom and longest_chain_addr_prefix is somewhat arbitrary.
Considerations going into this:

- Per [BIP-0173](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0173.mediawiki#bech32)
  the technically longest HRP for a 32 byte address ('data field') is 31 bytes.
  (Comes from encode(data) = 59 bytes, and max length = 90 bytes)
- subdenom should be at least 32 bytes so hashes can go into it
- longer subdenoms are very helpful for creating human readable denoms
- chain addresses should prefer being smaller. The longest HRP in cosmos to date is 11 bytes. (`persistence`)

For explicitness, its currently set to `len(longest_subdenom) = 44` and `len(longest_chain_addr_prefix) = 16`.

Please note, if the SDK increases the maximum length of a denom from 128 bytes,
these caps should increase.

So please don't make code rely on these max lengths for parsing.
